And this is what Mark found.
So we're in the... Taylor is a very interesting... Well, my primary interest is in collectors and what they've contributed.
Taylor is one of those stories where you have one of these wonderful collectors who did something, I mean, that's almost... You hesitate to use the word unique, but...
He did place his collection here.
Yeah.
I don't know if he committed it until it finally came.
Right.
Well, it was understood that he would leave his collection to the university.
Or was.
Yeah.
He was the chairman of the Friends of the Library for 25 years.
The dates are over here.
From, I think, 54 to 1980.
Mm-hmm.
And he was very active in the Groyer Club, too.
He was the president of the Groyer Club for a term.
1908, 1985.
Okay, now.
Yeah, he was a member of the class of 1930.
What was the source of his wealth?
That's an interesting story.
His grandfather's name was John Ambrose.
What was the book?
I think he was known as the millionaire strap hanger because he commuted to his office from his house in Yonkers.
And at the time he died, I think he was one of the 12
12 richest men in the united states and he started his fortune by um by being the first person to put iron into pill form and into what kind of fall into the form of a pill really and he well he was a druggist and he sold it under the name saratan which yeah of course you know saratan like uh dwight church and uh arwin hammer or whatever yeah right he had a penchant for uh putting for spelling things backwards
where the sartan is naked spelled backwards.
And he also set up a foundation called the Surdina Foundation, which was partly, I think, to benefit orphans, but I think it's still in existence and it benefits all sorts of causes.
But John Andrews's wife was an orphan, and so that was one reason he set up that foundation.
Bob Taylor was his grandson, and because of the family fortune, he never had to work for anyone.
And when he graduated in 1930,
He went to work in an architect's office, but he never had anything to do except crossword puzzles, so he quit that and just devoted himself full-time to book collecting.
I guess it provides something of a precedent for the Shady, although there is a significant difference in that.
I'm not really asking you to comment on that, but it doesn't help me understand.
Yeah, there are some obvious similarities, obvious differences too.
Bob Taylor's only interest as far as collecting for this collection is concerned was English literature and for a while American literature, though he's taught that after a while.
But he collected for 60 years and when he collected things that were outside the scope of the collection, he gave them to the library for general rare book collections.
I think they had a similar legal arrangement, that is that the books belonged to the collector during his life, and then depending on whether the institution was still in favor with the collector or at the time of his death, they would get the books.
So there was an escape plot?
I think so.
I think, you know, you've got any kind of leverage at all, it only makes sense.
And certainly that's what Bill Seide is doing, too.
I mean, I'll put the machine up.
These are Bill Scheide's books, and he doesn't want people to forget that.
I think it would be insulting to him, of course, if we were to say, well, this is one of our collections, which, of course, is not easy.
He's actively forming that collection, just the way Pop Taylor very actively formed this collection up to the time of his death.
Was this the room actually that, was this his room while he was alive?
Yes, it was from about 1972, 1971 or 72.
Within about ten years of moving to Princeton, he outgrew his library at home, and so he talked to Bill Dix, who was a librarian then.
I think it was Bill Dix, and said, it's all in there.
We don't verify that.
Bill Dix suggested to him that he deposit the book here in what up to that time had been the Princetonian Room.
The present Princetonian Room is at the end of the
the public catalog section when you first come in the building.
But it seemed like a natural thing to do since this is right at the end of the gallery of their books.
What distinguishes this as a collection or what makes this a remarkable collection?
Is there anything that makes it a remarkable collection?
The most remarkable thing about it is that you have the temerity to collect not just Victorian authors or one author or a lot of
of course, just specializing one author over one century or maybe two centuries, but he collected all of English literature, which really was very ambitious.
Did he collect authors who were not fashionable at the time?
Yes, he collected Trollope before Trollope was fashionable.
Really?
And he has one of the best Trollope collections in the world.
Walter Bennett had also a collection
pretty much on a par with Bob Terrace of Trout.
And where is Barrett's collection?
It's in Virginia now.
Okay.
Mr. Shady mentioned his name.
Yeah.
He's a very important collector.
And I hear it over and over after that, but I'm looking at him.
Yeah, you've really got to look at him, because he was a very popular collector among collectors.
Of course, they know each other very well, and they have strong opinions about each other.
I think Walter Barrett and Carol Wilson was another collector of Trout.
Carol Wilson was a very well-respected
collector, mainly I think of Victorians.
Well, let's see.
I think of Victorians.
This is set up right now for a meeting which is going to take place on Monday, which I don't think Bob Taylor has been crazy about that.
It's a reasonable use of the space.
Did you know him at all, by the way?
Yes.
Quite a lot of books for him when he was buying a lot of about 700 Sheridan books from Quartz.
I was calling him the duplicates for him.
I think Carol Wilson was mainly interested in 19th century fiction.
But he was a very important collector.
Go ahead.
And Bob Taylor met him, and he knew Carol Wilson.
I think he knew most of the collectors about his time.
And his time extends from the late 20s to the mid-80s.
I should be like, this is our retirement book.
I would think.
Is that where Wilson's books went?
No, but I mean, they should have this book.
Oh, sure.
Oh, I'm sure.
I mean, there's a graphical collection.
Tell me a little bit about Taylor.
Did he collect things that Princeton wouldn't have otherwise?
Yes.
I think when, in fact, he had put together a pretty good Dickens collection and I think a number of other Victorians, and when he decided to give his books to Princeton, he simply, well, I'm not sure what he did with his Dickens books, whether he
gave them to the general rare book collection or what he did, but they're not in the collection here because they duplicate things in general rare books.
One of the stories that Nicholas Barker told me in England, and then Roger Stoddard repeated it again, but it's kind of a, you talk about deaccessioning duplicates or the Vaughan, the silent scotillians, I guess, that Jackson actually decided to sell it.
perfect copy of that book to Taylor because he felt that in private hands it would be kept better than... It's interesting, you know, sometimes we were discussing the general consideration.
Are certain books better off in private hands than there are in institutions?
They said, well, there's a case.
And they said, the irony of that, of course, is that went back to Princeton.
Who knows, maybe Jackson was looking
At that point, maybe there was no commitment made to Prince Poustahat and Rose.
But now you have the Vaughan in here someplace, I would suppose.
I guess, let me look in the catalog.
Any of those stories about the accessioning, of course the whole business is potentially so controversial that we generally don't tell you about that.
Whatever the story is.
Indeed.
16th century, 17th century.
Oh, 1655.
Well, that's, uh... Does it say 7 Gables here?
FG down to the bottom of the top.
I guess, you know, I really wanted to come in and touch base with you.
I mean, this does provide something of it.
Taylor comes in in context in my book with Shady.
I mean, we certainly don't want to write the kind of book that I'm writing and not mention him.
So you're trying to find the appropriate place to bring him in.
And I think appropriately he comes in here.
I mean, he does form a kind of a precedent, I guess.
What's the reaction on the campus to Scheide's achievement with his 36-line Bible?
Well, everybody who knows about it is very apt for him, because he got it at such a barman.
And, of course, Bill Stonewood said he could die happy now.
He's got, in fact, I think, what was it, the three books?
They just sat with it for half an hour, just spent the half an hour thing out there.
had a chance to go with them?
Bill showed it to me.
Bill Stoneman showed it to me one time.
It's beautiful.
The type, to me, is so much more beautiful than the 42-line Bible type.
Exquisite.
I didn't expect it to be in the condition that it is.
I think I expected something a little more, you know, not what I saw.
But in the circles that you move in, which are the
I feel like circles, and there were books of circles in the library.
Well, what's the reaction to this?
Well, I'm not as... Really, I don't circulate as much in those circles as Steve or Bill Joyce do, but I'm sure Bill could give you a... Gaged feeling, like in the Groyer Club, that those would be the people whose reaction you'd want to get.
I'm sure Bill Shining could... Sorry, Bill Joyce could...
I couldn't give you an earful about that, because it was, of course, very celebrating.
Well, around here it was very celebrating, because there was a coup.
And this basically means that Princeton will have to lay the book, too.
Well, I don't know whether Bill Shady or Bill Stoneman, this isn't the sort of thing that Bill Shady would say, but Bill Stoneman would say when he's not there, that there are only two other, I think it's two other collectors who've had it.
King George III and Errol Spencer.
Yes, that's right.
I mentioned that to Mr. Sharding as well, as so they say, because they haven't come up with any of this yet.
Delightful man.
Yeah, he likes to poo-poo things like that.
Bob Taylor was very modest that way, too.
Trying to get him to, and it's hard from my standpoint.
You're talking to Bill Joyce.
Terribly influential in his, I think it was his uncle, Jay Pierpont Morgan.
The story I got yesterday at the Morgan.
Yeah.
I heard the thing they said at the Morgan.
and uh basically julie is responsible for for making him a manuscript collector yeah and for for for the library on madison avenue and maybe he absolutely encouraged him to buy the very first manuscript that he bought and uh influential in about four different
He also sent Belba Costa Green to him.
That's one of the four major areas.
As a matter of fact, he found Belbreed out here, I think.
Well, he was a member of the class of 88, as was Morris Parrish, and he was an assistant librarian for the university.
He was friendly with Junius, this guy Parrish?
Parrish and Junius Morgan were classmen.
Okay, now this helps.
I'm just trying in my mind to figure out where they come in the book, that's all.
I'm looking for a little avenues.
Well, yeah, sure.
But I lost my train of school.
That's okay.
You're talking about Julius and Belgrino?
I guess I was just thinking that that class generated two of the great bibliophiles who were part of the Golden Age in a lot of ways.
And I have a chapter on the Golden Age.
Yeah.
This is beautiful.
This room is meant to replicate the parish's home, which was evidently across the river in New Jersey, across the river of Philadelphia in New Jersey.
Boy, New Jersey had its share of important collectors filling in New Jersey.
Really extraordinary.
I won't bother going through them right now, even to this very day.
To this very day, up in the West Country, you got two women, three women, really.
Lady Eccles, Mary Hyde.
Mary Hyde and Betsy Shirley.
And I guess, I don't know if Violet King is a collector, really.
She was one of Henry's... Betsy Shirley collects what?
Children's books.
She's a Beinecke.
Her name is Elizabeth Beinecke.
Is she a reclusive?
I don't know.
Not at all.
Do you think she's somebody I got in contact?
Well, you could certainly try.
She's given her collection going to Yale.
She's a pioneer.
I'll take this table.
I could probably do that for me.
That would be great.
You know what I mean.
I do indeed.
It may take me a minute to try this guy.
That woman up there, while I'm looking here, is Sylvia Beach.
Oh, Shakespeare Company.
Right.
And she was the daughter of, I think his name was Samuel Beach.
Who lived out here.
Who was the minister of the National Presbyterian Church.
Sylvia Beach.
And her papers are here, except for James Joyce letters that she sold to the State University in Buffalo.
She was quite a nice woman.
There was a lovely biography of her a couple of years ago.
Yes.
Yeah, there was.
A pretty good book.
Yeah.
I love that picture, but I'm glad she's looking away from my desk.
I never would have guessed who that is.
I would have guessed an actress.
Yeah.
I could show you, we have downstairs a giant full-length portrait of her silent partner, a woman named Manier.
Manier, right.
Andrea?
Was it Yvette, maybe?
Andrea.
She had the store across the street at one point, the bookstore.
Well, they... And they became... Yeah, and they got friendly, and then... There were a couple... Yeah, really, Manier was really the banquet, and she was... That's the way I've been studying, anyway.
Let's see, Carl Shirley, this is Carl Shirley, Post Kennel Road in Bernardsville.
Post Kennel?
Post, and then the second word is Kennel with one L. And the town is?
Bernardsville.
And there's a telephone number in the area code 201-766-1043.
Does she have a zip?
Maybe I'll just write her a letter?
07924.
079, does this spell her name for me?
I'll just write her as my normal letter.
Mrs. Carl Shirley, S-H-I-R-L-E-Y.
Her first name is you said?
Everybody calls her Betsy.
I'll write her my standard letter.
What can you tell me delicately or anything for the record about Mr. Scheide and Mr. Henry Bill Scheide?
I think in terms of being quoted now.
What does having as a collection here at Princeton mean?
Well, if we're going to talk on the record, I guess... Let's do it both ways.
Okay.
Well, of course, the collection is a 19th century library in conception and execution.
That is, it's a high-sponsed library, and as such, it covers an amazing range of subjects.
and has, and by high spots we mean attracting the best, most significant books in any number of subjects.
And that's one of the reasons why my quote last year about it's not, if the Friday Library has something, but what they will have value to an exhibition is because of that sense of high spots that cover, touching so many areas.
The continuity of the library is what makes it so valuable, to my way of thinking, is the fact that we have three generations representing over 100 years of book collection.
127, that's right.
And I'm not aware of any other personal library with anything close to that as a record of continuity and effort.
and accomplishments.
I mean, it isn't just that they were collectors, but that they made it their life's work.
Especially the son and the grandson, that is to say, joined in jail and the current leader.
And the current leader, right.
They have really devoted an extraordinary level of effort.
And it's a great tool, the great strength of that library in its early printing, its history of early printing,
will give us an enormous boost in an area where we would otherwise be relatively undistinguished, I think.
And by the very presence of that library and the holdings that it has, it gives us a research resource that we're second to none.
And because we're a research institution, that's .
Okay.
And again, this question is for quotation, all right?
Yeah.
Is it coming to Princeton?
Give me the answer that you can give me for the quotation.
The library that privately held
library held by Mr. Scheide, and he has established a series of trusts and other arrangements with the university that are known to him as his lawyers, presumably.
And we don't know officially what his imprecise intentions might be.
It is almost a unique situation in that.
Well, there's precedent that was expressed here.
Yeah, as there is, I'm sure that Bill has protected himself and his interests.
But when he pays for the construction of the space here in the library, just as he pays for the upkeep of it and has some kind of arrangement with the university that I'm not even aware of.
And Stolen works for him.
The nice part of it is that despite the private nature of the holding, we have a complete coordination in terms of providing access to the books, to the point where if the two bills, that is Fulman and Sidi, are not here, we can get access to the collection and provide use of service.
The other remarkable thing about it is that the Sidi Library holdings are in the card catalog out in front.
And so they are generally available for people to use.
It has to be his attitude.
I mean, that's a pretty admirable attitude.
He's been very good about making this stuff accessible.
Yeah, and as I say, from our point of view, that's to be all in all that we do here.
I mean, try and go see Mrs. Mellon's books.
I couldn't even get into it.
Really?
This is a private library.
You know, they said, you're publishing your catalogs of Yale Press.
And they said that her assistant, well, this is why... Is it Dita Amery?
Dita Amery.
This is very much a private library.
If you want to see something, write us a letter and explain why you can't get it anyplace else.
Actually, we had the... Maybe that's the project, but I'll bring that in in my book.
But they think that they're not going to get in, you know, by telling me to go away.
She was raised in Princeton.
Is that right?
Bunny Mellon is, I believe, a stepdaughter of Grace Lambert.
Her name is Bunny Lambert.
I'm pretty sure she is.
She mentions it in the preface to one of these catalogs.
We did an exhibition here when the first volume of the catalog was published.
It's exquisite.
Have you been down there?
No, I haven't.
I saw it here, and at one point I thought I might... Oh, whatever.
So that's for the record.
The tax situation.
Trust me not to use anything to embarrass you.
I did trust you not.
You know, I mean, if we say something's off the record, it's off the record even if it's taped.
Now, that's kind of what you figure.
He does have a toddler, however, who is very actively interested in books.
Yes.
Well, actually, Bobby is not uninterested either, but, I mean, I don't think, I think the children are unhappy, you know, that the library has reached the point where it can't continue as a kind of family resource.
I mean, after all, their father, their grandfather, their great-grandfather had a role in this.
It is a marvelous aspect, and they certainly would be in a position to do something on behalf of it in terms of their family.
But also as a hypothetical law, you can tell it.
Sure, sure.
That's right.
I mean, which is basically what happens.
That's the rule.
You know, Bradley Martin was really...
where that stuff is going up.
And the only reason the Archdiocese of L.A.
waited 25 years is because he stipulated it.
They waited 25 years, and that's not even family.
And there are conflicting philosophies about that.
There are people who lived in sales in the early 80s, I can't forget his name now, an Irishman, who believed that collections are formed to be broken
Yeah, well, the great quote is the Robert Holmes quote, which I started the Golden Age chapter with, and it said, if it worked for other collectors, where would I have gotten my books?
Right.
As a justification, and you find resonances of this, right up, as recently as you remember, the Schwayen sale of the 45-year-old.
Oh, right, yeah.
I don't know how to pronounce it, but he said the exact same thing.
Oh, I didn't mean it was Schwayen.
Schwayen, Martin Schwayen.
The Norwegian guy.
Yeah.
Except that, it would be a pity to break up those five Gutenbergs, from 42 to 36, maybe the two soldiers.
I mean, they belong... Oh, it would be a pity, but, you know, I mean, that represents a certain tradition in the way... And a level of achievement as a collective, too.
But look what happened, and one of the few people who held all of those was Regal Spencer, and he gave his books to an institution, and it was the institution that dispersed them.
You know, the great Sylvester de Sassi quote, which I used very early in my book, nothing is serenity.
He's talking, oh my golly, books, I love you, nobody's going to love you as much as that wonderful quote.
The last line is,
In life, nothing is certain.
Nothing is.
And even institutions.
I mean, Harvard, I asked Farrell about the Silex Tillion, which Bill Jackson of Harvard sold to Bob Taylor.
Because according to Nicholas Barker, it was such a perfect copy.
And they had a duplicate, of course.
The irony is, of course, when he comes back.
He didn't know that story, but you're familiar with that story.
Actually, no, I'm not.
It didn't bear out in the... In fact, Roger started telling that story, and Barker, they both told me that story.
It's a cute story.
Well, I can tell you a related story.
I'd like one.
When the doctor's bird...
were on the board of the New York Public Library.
They attended a meeting one time where the trustees considered a request from Wilmoth Lewis, the great Alpol collector, and Lefty Lewis, as he was universally known, requested the library to sell him a copy of a book that he did not have in his collection.
And the trustees, back in an age, in the late 30s, when things were much looser in terms of what institutions could do and what their boards and their work consultants could do, voted to sell this book to Lewis for his
I guess he called it Strawberry Farm, didn't he?
He called it the Lewis Walpole Collection at Strawberry Farm.
He used both history and history.
Yeah, it's a strawberry farm.
Beautiful place.
Oh, gorgeous.
Well, the brothers never said a word in the course of the discussion of the meeting, but when they gave their collection to the library, they put a stipulation in the instrument, a gift.
which states that should any book be alienated from the collection by the New York Public Library, the title automatically reverts to the University of Pennsylvania.
Well, that echoes Peeps.
Are you familiar with Peeps?
Oh, the Peeps going at Cambridge.
I do want some quotes on what happened to you with the Manny thing.
Okay, well, let me just finish one quote, then I'll get on to that.
Have you talked to the Attorney General in New York, Robert Abrams, or anybody, about regulating the auction houses?
They have proposed a set of rules that affect auctions, and I would have thought they were in place by now, in the same way that they now regulate art galleries by requiring that there be a list of prices in the gallery.
I don't think so.
And they have proposed a set of rules, and I don't know what's happened, and I think it would be very interesting
Robert Abrams, right?
Yeah, he's the Attorney General.
I don't think he would get to him.
You know two of the biggest magic words out there in the world?
A random house.
It's just what you say, the smell of ink.
He is a politician and he's running for office, so maybe.
In any case, I think it's very important on that subject because I think the auction, the practices of the houses,
are rife with... I've got Steve Manson talking on the record about this again, how they, how he sees they're losing the guidance of self peace.
And of course, that competition has always been more imaginative and creative in figuring out solutions to money.
Self peace does have a reputation for that.
That's how they lost the sale.
Self peace came in with money, upfront, real money.
And now they allow the bidder to give you a line of credit.
I mean, Dick Manning went and bid $2.1 million for the Shakespeare's and meant that the whole crew figured he's not worth more than $500,000.
Well, why not?
Selfies is what is putting up the dope.
And it was a year later, two years later, he still owed them the money.
So they called him in.
And it was a floating reserve at that sale, by the way.
I don't even know.
What is a floating reserve?
That's a good quote.
It's important, but...
It's important that institutions not confound the collecting bug with their research mission.
They have to keep their eye on the prize, and the prize from an institutional perspective is maintaining these collections for their research value, not to get overtaken by what you call the gentle madness.
I think that's an occupational hazard.
The appeal to institutional vanity to say that you're acquiring the first book printed in English North America is tempting, but in the end, where the text is so well known, I didn't think that the information that one would be able to glean from it was sufficient to warrant that kind of price.
Moreover, I'm suspicious of any object, any item that comes without a provenance.
And when I heard the story that this was found in a bin in New York at the Argosy Bookstore, I said, I'm not interested in this thing, huh?
Well... You know, our first thing's off the record, our other record, is this Declaration of Independence.
I don't think that's a forgery, but I do think that it's a problem.
I think it's an uncatalogued item out of it.
That somebody ripped off.
some place like Texas or wherever, where they still have those uncatalogued things?
Well, there are a lot of... That's right.
I've got a story that I want to tell in my book, and I'm not going to tell it to you now, because this is a major story.
Yeah, a lot of thefts, and I think that as an administrator of a fairly large collection of this sort of thing,
One of the greatest worries I have is internal security, because that's where they're most vulnerable and there's no easy solution to that.
You know, Roger started at Harvard and gave me three cases.
One, they called them the English Deep, because he specialized in English literature, the other one, the French Deep.
These were all people connected with the university who had access and knew the value of the things that they were taking, and he even gave me names and
You know, there were criminal actions taken.
And he basically, that's what you just said, is that this is the biggest story.
People will know what the hell they're doing.
Absolutely.
They know their way around.
And know how to get around security.
Know how to get, and very often, you know, in my case, I'm here almost every night late, and I took the alarm, and I'm the one who,
There are many ways that we could tighten up, but starting with my own activities.
I'm sure we barely have a problem of internal failure.
You better pretty soon, because this guy is blumbering.
He's going to get out before he is.
The psychologist said to me, you've got this story, but I think you've only got chapter one on him, but I don't think he's going to do books for himself.
He said he apparently has skills that the criminal world is going to be attractive.
But I just hope that the institutions get their houses on him.
and make things a lot more difficult it's been it's been a real struggle and you know the balance that we constantly fight is access on the one side and protection on the other and the very constituency that we serve again are the people most resistant for imposing the changes that we want to protect the material and whereas the very tight
Because in an academic setting like this, faculty really run the show, especially in the private research areas.
And what we're about is protecting personal relationships, nurturing them so we get resources from people, and nurturing faculty to use them.
And there's a self-reinforcing dynamic so that
If we start tightening up, you know, people will say, well, you know, why would I want to give my things to you because you don't want to encourage their use.
Okay.
Now, you do have some control because you're special collections.
Yes.
I mean, you do have a reading room.
It is kind of a control situation.
It's not an open stack policy.
No.
Materials are brought to the individual and they don't show up.
Yes, so it is.
There is no control over it.
Oh, yes.
It's not that we're indifferent to it, but there are things we could do to tighten it.
And Steven Blumberg did not hit you guys for, I don't think, six books.
We evidently were, yeah.
We have some general circulation books, but nothing from their books that we're aware of.
Steve probably told you he would spend some time in on that in Des Moines in January checking.
and did discover some general questions.
But we're reasonably sure that he didn't pick it up.
But we've been thinking.
He went up to a dispensing party.
Unless you think that institutions are completely vulnerable, I mean, there is a professional group that has, in fact, several professional groups have been revising security guidelines and practical procedures and advice for
librarians and arborists tighten up to make sure that they're procedurally protected from the likes of Stevie Blumberg.
And frankly, I think we do a better job protecting ourselves against outside thieves like Blumberg than we do, or the guy at Penn, the guy who just robbed the California guy.
Crackpot.
Not Dragner.
No, no, he is Rosenbach.
He gave himself a sweetheart.
He's still a member of the Goliath Court, by the way, which is something... Is that right?
Right.
Crackpot.
He admitted... He has some sort of plea bargain.
...the outfark defense, and I'm going to get a copy of it.
People have said if you get that, in fact, they'd all kind of like to see it.
Apparently, he stipulated, he acknowledged that there's sufficient evidence
for people to possibly conclude that he's guilty, but he doesn't acknowledge his guilt.
Right.
I've never heard of such a fine people.
I mean, I know that he entered into some sort of plea bargain, but I've heard so much from that story from Ellen Dunlacher that turns it off at some point.
Ellen's been a big suicide in Texas.
Well, that's right.
She was there.
Did you ever talk to Bob Patterson?
No.
I don't know who he was.
He's a librarian, Tulka, who was at least with Kyle Stanley.
Well, yeah, they were, but Bob went to, he'd been at, well, actually, Bob Patterson is interesting because he was with Tom of Tulsa, he was with Gene Gressley of Wyoming, and he was also very much involved in the administration of HRC in the 60s.
Really?
Yeah.
How much are these guys willing to say?
Mm-hmm.
How much are these guys willing to say as, uh,
I don't know.
Bob might be pretty tight into it.
I've got some good people in Texas.
I've talked to Warren Robbins.
I've talked to John Silver.
Did you?
How about Vaughtan?
Did he know anything about that?
I've just recently been told that maybe I should talk to him more.
What I find so interesting about Texas is that the three neoconservatives
Silver, Gregoria, and Bill Bennett were at Texas all at the same time.
And they apparently had some joint activity.
Well, Silver, of course, is the big one.
He was the heir apparent.
Yeah, yeah.
And he got fired.
Frank Irwin.
His obit is on his way to me as we speak.
I'm writing that chapter right now.
That's a pretty good chapter.
Well, Patterson, I don't know if he'd be willing to talk about it, but that would be a more operational point of view.
I'm going to talk to you.
I'm going to talk to James Richner.
In fact, his aide is at Austin.
What he gave us his office at HRC.
Apparently Harry Rantz chimed in the way he charmed everybody else.
I don't have any impropriety, but I have a hell of a story.
The problem with Texas is that they were driven to try to accomplish more than their resources would permit.
There's a sort of collective inferiority complex that I think led to judgments.
Do you know what the title of my chapter is there?
Did I tell you?
No.
Instant Ivy.
Oh, yes, you did say that, yeah.
The political title?
Yes, I did.
They tried to achieve Instant Ivy, and that's a phrase I got out of there.
And if you see some of the things that they did, you know, I think are very questionable, even down to the recent past, I think are very questionable.
A lot of jokes.
Yeah, a lot of bilge.
I asked Roger Kennedy, just chatting with him, and he said, well, yeah, but he said there's an argument for junk.
He said, you can't, sometimes you can't appreciate the masterpiece and you can, unless he can see all these things with me to the, you know, that's it.
Well, all right, that's what someone wants to say.
But I'm addressing the subject of junk.
Yeah, and I think that the, and they were so driven to accumulate, to try to show their sort of institutional presence and work, you know, that they went too far.
Well, I opened this chapter with stuff coming in, and there's no place to put it.
Physically, literally, they didn't know where to put it.
They stuck it in the tower.
Well, that's why I mentioned Bob Patterson, because he, I think, dealt with some of those.
Do you remember Bob Patterson?
I think he would.
I'm not quite sure when he went there.
He's in Tulsa now.
He's a librarian in Tulsa.
I think he's two years older than I am.
Yeah, he wouldn't be there.
He wouldn't have been there then.
Harry Ransom started in 57 in those real frenetic years, rather, in the early 60s.
Yeah, well, let's say he graduated from college in 58 or 60, got his library degree in 62.
He'd have been there.
Must be a fun chapter.
I mean, I don't know.
He might not have been involved in the way that I think he was, but I thought
I remembered Bob Patterson.
Robert Patterson.
With a phone call, for sure.
And I'm going to see if I can see Bob, just because he's so articulate anyway, just to talk about books.
And I'm going to get out of J.C.
Brown anyway.
You won't get anything out of Bob Patterson?
You don't think so?
How did he leave Texas?
Oh, that was all right.
Yeah, better than U.S.
Penn.
I followed into New York Public by a month.
I talked to Bernie McKeegan a year-and-a-half or so ago, and then he was just going to Florida, so I had my wife and kids down there.
That's what I wanted to see.
He's got an interesting children's book collection.
Yes, he does.
Yeah, they have the Sydney
I think they only really see the revolving collection, but that's what they got, I think.
But it's interesting, they bring him in to... Let me ask you a question now.
Emory University gets 250 million Coca-Cola dollars.
I wonder, with the mandate to become a great university, and they've just taken half of Hopkins' French department, the entire French department, half of the graduates, that's been a bigger thing.
Do they then go out and try and build special collections?
Well, I know the special collection person there.
They certainly have Linda Matthews.
I just spoke to her last week about it.
Do you think that's a worthwhile question to ask?
With the money that they have, if you want to become first-rate, if you want to become a Princeton or a Yale or a Harvard or a Texas,
You have to have the material to attract scholars, isn't that right?
Does that follow?
Or is that simplistic?
No, all universities have to do it at some level.
I think, in the case of Emory, that they've had some modest successes in that area, but I don't think it's pretty pretty distinguished.
but they have the money, which they do.
There was a big piece in the Times a year or so ago.
They have the money programmatically for developing the university generally, but whether they have it specifically dedicated for rare books, most of the great collections are the result of individual benefactions.
There's no question.
Say that again.
Most of the great collections
are the results of individual benefactions, whether of money or of materials.
So that's one of the presses of my book?
Yeah.
Basically.
People don't know that.
The whole New York Public Library is a collection of wonderful collections.
You could say that at any distinguished library.
But even the New York Public Library as an institution is not a public library.
No.
I didn't realize that either.
Oh, no, that's right.
Well, it's public in the 19th century sense.
It's the most complicated institution I have ever been associated with and ever hoped to be associated with.
It is absolutely Byzantine as government.
I mean, it has patterns of, you know, the whole structure, the contract between, the 99-year contract between the board and the city for the public library part of the public library, that is to say the circulating branches in the three boroughs, is in itself
a model of complexity if you wanted to know how to make a difficult situation, tangled situation, you know, even more so.
One day last summer I wanted to go in and take a look at the tobacco thing, you know, the events thing.
And it's been open until noon on a weekday.
I was part of my bailiwick when I was there, and I think part of that problem now is the hours are coming back.
That's the danger.
of that kind of collecting of individuals.
Sometimes the interests are, when they're institutionalized, what is a kind of natural, if somewhat idiosyncratic expression of enthusiasm becomes, in an institutional setting, whimsical and dangerously subversive.
And the reason I say that is here's a man who was the son of a tobacco heiress in Virginia.
It made all the sense in the world for him to buy whatever he wanted to.
It was tobacco related, so he bought books that had, you know, early herbals that described tobacco plants, manuscripts, etc.
Well, there's a letter from Sir Walter Raleigh or something, which, you know, makes sense.
It does.
And then he gave his collection and a pot of money to NYPL and other institutions benefited from his generosity.
Nobody in the world, and I would be the last to criticize him for having done that, but you put the tobacco collection in the context of New York Public Special Collections.
And Bernie is a very good example of somebody who had responsibility for that, who had, I think,
done as well with it as one could do with it, but he bought Dr. Gachet, a print by Van Gogh, because Dr. Gachet is smoking a pint.
But they have that show here and after.
Yeah, yeah.
He bought, well, Bernie didn't buy it, but the library bought a manuscript by William Faulkner, that's the first story of the Father Abraham, which we published and got the... Check that one.
Did you, really?
I saw it the day I saw it in the New York Times, I called.
No kidding.
You were one of the ones who created all those problems for us.
Well, problems in the revised sense.
In some respects, that was one of the great moments there.
That's a very important fragment.
Well, let me finish.
The story how the library acquired it, it may be that there's some suggestion that the manuscript was stolen from Faulkner by his agent, but that's off the record.
I don't want you to... It's off the record for anybody.
What do you think of that?
Well, Eddie Wolfe, for instance, collected American book linings.
Apparently, that had nothing to do with the collections of the library company in Philadelphia.
One of the problems in the recent past is the run-up of value of collections that we manage.
And I think that run-up in the value of these collections poses difficulty in the relationship between an individual employee and an institution where the individual collects in the same area that the institution is forming collections.
that is an area that is right for conflict of interest and I think that we have a professional obligation to draw up guidelines that will enable us to get around that problem so that we won't put ourselves in the appearance of being in a conflict of interest.
There was a minor scandal at the University of Texas where I believe
Well, there are many other areas of conflict that have to do with relationships with dealers, exchanges, using institutional funds to purchase personal
Acquisitions, even when there's an intention to reimburse the institution, there's a commingling effect.
All of this, I think, is the grounds for misunderstanding what the appropriate relationship is.
What do you do in a case, and I'll just throw this out as an example, but at the University of Texas again, Cotton Lake is curator of a Cotton Lake collection.
At Yale, the collector of the Great Greta collection was the curator of that collection until he died.
There is a tradition, and a very honorable tradition.
The best example I can think of is Philip Holford at Harvard, whose personal involvement and formation of a collection that he left for the institution would be harmed by what I'm suggesting.
But in an age of commercialization, where the cash nexus forms so much
And where we are in the great age of accountability, where the public purse, whether it be in the form of outright funding or subsidization through tax benefits, means that in order to be appropriately accountable, I think we have to separate ourselves as individuals and our collecting interests from our institutional obligations.
I just think it's in the air and a part of the time we live in.
And I think you did indicate that you are working on a code of ethics.
For whom again?
Yes, for the Red Books and Manuscripts section of the Association of College and Research Libraries, which is a division of the American Libraries.
And this is in progress.
It's in progress.
The draft has been published and is being now re-edited and revised.
Do you address these other little, like the Philip Holford situation, kind of situation?
Because that isn't quite an exception to what you're talking about.
Well, nobody wants to say, and I don't believe the statement goes so far as to say that personal collecting should be prohibited, but there are practices within that where we attempt to provide some guidelines to give individuals guidance in their conduct.
We certainly take a dim view of dealing, that institutional employees should not be dealers.
um there are this problem is by the way being dealt with in a very direct way by the american museum association or the american association museums where the institution is always given the right of first refusal for any purchase made by an employee in an area that the institution collects um and yeah and it's because that we have this problem of appearances to cope with
I don't know that I could continue to afford to do it, but at one time I was actively involved in forming a collection of 19th century advice books.
And I have more or less laid that aside now because I've just gotten to the point where I felt uncomfortable with it.
And very little things happened in terms of relations with dealers.
What I could buy for $25, if a dealer felt he was going to get on my better side by giving me a $75 item,
you know, which might be triple what I could have afforded, but they feel that it's going to give them an inside track, maybe to get an option commission for an item that would be hundreds of times that, maybe even more.
I'm putting myself and my integrity and that of the institution at risk.
Before we get off on this, you were telling me about the IRS.
You never finished what you were saying.
Well, just the...
Well, what I started to say was that, and then when the Father Abraham manuscript came from George Duchenes, who was a New York manuscripts deal, the reason why was that there's a reference on the first page to Flem Snopes chewing tobacco.
Well, that kind of reason gets awfully whimsical in my opinion.
And there's no other Faulkner manuscripts in the collection.
And so you begin to get some institutional oddments
because you have the money to film it.
And maybe it does belong in Oxford, Mississippi, or Virginia, or Texas, which has the premier.
Oh, Virginia is where the... Yeah, and so I think that in an instance like that, and I don't mean to pick on the New York Public Library.
God knows I've worked there for a couple of years, and I really love it.
But yeah, it's an example, and I think that...
It poses the kind of difficulty.
That may even impede scholarship.
If somebody's working on Faulkner, you want to go where the stuff is.
Now I have to go running up to New York to look at this one thing.
But on the other hand, I can tell you how that one manuscript, I alluded to my publication of success there,
Two printers came in and they said they had always derived so much benefit from the rare book room by studying design examples and old books and so on.
They wanted to print a book and sell it for the benefit of the library.
Red Osier is the one who got it.
And Red Osier Press, Steve Miller, and Ken Botkin's book.
And Bernie was the one who suggested that they do the Faulkner manuscript.
And we got Jill Summers' permission.
We told her what we were doing.
And we had it printed.
Herbert Mitgang wrote a long article in The Times on the day of publication.
He caught wind of it, came down and talked to us.
All hell broke loose on that day because it was a page one story on Wednesday, and Wednesday is the second greatest circulation of the New York Times.
Did you know that?
Wednesdays?
No, but... And you know why?
It's a very prosaic reason.
It's the food coupon day.
And that story on that day created that we had a deluge of orders to pull the book out in a day.
I figured it was sold by 11.30 a.m.
I don't know if that's quite true.
Well, I know.
I saw the thing at that time.
I started working at 7 a.m.
and I read the Times.
So I had a jump on everybody.
I was actually among the very first callers.
Well, we had, when that story hit, we had dealers calling, reserving ten times.
And you admitted two, I think.
And we, I think, well, I forget, two or four.
But the poor guy, Jordan Davies, his name was, who was the distributor, bookseller in lower Manhattan, he had, he created for that poor man a terrible public relations problem with his colleagues, because they all wanted to order books, and he was on the strict orders not to do that.
And then the media got into it, you know, and I get calls.
Are you William Joyce?
Are you responsible for this?
Did you say this?
I mean, I didn't know what I was doing at one point.
I was interviewed on NPR, and I started getting calls from that.
I got one very easily.
I'm sorry?
Well, yeah, I mean, it wasn't that you called that day, though.
I called within minutes of reading it.
at 7 o'clock in the morning.
I started work before everybody else had a chance to read their times.
I acted immediately on it.
I didn't wait to see it.
I want to tell you that the stories that that project created was unbelievable.
The worries, the problems.
Every step of the way, the editor and the printers fought.
They fought like Hasmold.
How did the Trade Edition do?
Pretty well.
That's when I started to deal with Jason Epstein, actually, because of that.
Right before I left the library, we tried to see if there were other joint projects.
Nothing much happened when I left.
How long were you there, by the way?
About five years.
Do you have a little thing that I can have that gives me a background on you?
On me?
Yeah.
In fact, I can put it up on computer.
By the way, what time does Bill Stolman leave by there?
Because I've got a bunch of stuff.
About 5 o'clock.
Okay, so I love that time.
I've got my camera and briefcase and stuff.
That's probably the time I want to get him.
I'm driving back.
To Massachusetts?
Yeah.
No problem.
Well, anyway, we had, oh, the trade edition.
Well, the Random House got into the act, and they said, well, of course, we have the rights to this.
They do?
They claim the rights to it.
Why?
Because it was a part of the Snopes trilogy.
It was really part of the novel.
It was advanced later in the novel The Village.
They had a legitimate claim.
I didn't think they did, because we got permission from Jill to publish the manuscript, which was the basis of both.
and it was different from what the Virgin was doing.
So Jason was just firing a shot there.
I think he just wanted to lob one across our bow, you know.
We had a lunch that was kind of interesting.
Jason and Tony, something rather high enough, his brother-in-law, no, no, well, I forget.
Bennett Serf's son-in-law.
Tony Widkheimer, who was the production guy there.
Anyway, they came down.
We kind of had negotiation over them once.
It worked out fine.
Actually, it worked out better than fine because they gave a...